So Daniel uh thanks for joining me today
we have a very important subject to
discuss there's a lot of confusion when
it comes to low carbohydrate SL
ketogenic SLC carnivore
nutrition uh there are some people who
are very misled and I want you to
describe this group of
people so thank you for having me um
first of all I see a lot of posts on
social media lately about
carnivore um allowing you to eat
unlimited amount of food without gaining
fat and I don't know where this Dogma
came from so there's actually a page
that I discovered on Instagram that has
tons and tons of people who gain 40 50
60 pounds of literally fluff on
Carnivore died and are just miserable
now keep in mind that when average
person puts on pounds with no knowledge
of how to properly use it except they'll
just start walking undereating and the
last about two weeks it's going to take
him year a year to lose it it's just
they created a a huge problem for
themselves and I noticed that
um this information is presented as
carnivore diet is allowing you to eat as
much as you can because there's no
carbohydrates and as long as as you mix
fat and protein it kind of figures
itself out
so I'm not sure if this message um is
really understood by the people who are
spreading it but if you're pushing
unlimited amount of calories like let's
say you tell this to a food addict who
had a food addiction issue since a
childhood they'll take it as a challenge
and they'll start eating three pounds of
beef bacon cheese a gallon of raw milk
and sticks of butter a day you're going
to get so fat your head's going to be
spinning so a carnivore diet is
absolutely not a green card it's an
unlimited amount of food like I still
have to watch the amount of food that I
eat yeah so I've done this experiment
for nine days and I gained 11 pounds of
fluff just a regular fluff like if I was
eating pizza Burgers wouldn't matter
extra water retention extra puffiness in
my body stomach face everywhere so I
wanted to make this video because
carnivore diet is what I stand for caror
diet is um how I helped over 1,400
people right now um since I started
carnivore those are all of my clients
and they had tremendous success
reversing their disease autoimmune
disease Alor colitis Crohn's disease uh
diabetes skeletal issues metabolic
damage tons and tons of issues were
reversed with the carnivore diet they
lost bunch of weight they gained a lot
of muscle they feel better they look
better so this diet is tremendously
efficient if it's if if it's used right
but it hurts my heart that some people
give it a shot they fall for this trap
of eat whatever you want how much you
want um as much as you want throughout
the day and you're still going to lose
weight the answer is no you're not going
to continue losing weight um just for
example 4 ounces of regular organic um
ground beef 85% lean from CCO contains
17 grams of fat okay now 4 ounces is
absolutely nothing a pound is little for
a small woman so people usually eat a
couple pounds of that you get tons of
fat just from meat itself now people
look at it oh 85% is pretty lean I'm
gonna add some butter and cheese to it
and now you're literally skyrocketing
your calories and they're getting out of
control and then people are wondering
why they're not losing weight or
actually they're gaining weight so
that's why I called you yesterday I'm
like John let's talk about this because
you know we're putting events in Europe
for carnivore ARs and we're um educating
people on this topic and this needs to
stop the uh everything you're saying is
backed up by the clinical data um I
think it's important to point out where
I I
think um we think because we talked
about this last night that these
falsehoods came from I think part of it
is just kind of charlatans that are just
like telling people what they want to
hear like sounds great you can eat all
you want uh and then you know people buy
the book or they buy the program and
then they find out the hard way and it
doesn't work um but I think there's many
more people out there who don't
realize how
misleading what they're saying is
so some people will switch from a
standard American diet to a more
ketogenic or low carb carnivore
diet and then their appetiz goes way
down so they think they're eating
whatever they want now these are people
who don't have a horrible relationship
with food these are not you know addicts
of carbohydrates so um they get the
carbohydrates out of the system they
stop being so
hungry so they may have you know
a b of a stick of butter in their coffee
in the morning and then they may uh you
know have have something for lunch
that's know a steak and then they might
have uh you know another steak and some
liver worst uh for
dinner and when you look at the amount
of protein like the amount of protein
reach goes near where they need to be to
gain muscle they're protein Target but
they're still at a calorie deficit now I
I mean you and I we don't like the word
calories because calories correspond
with temperature and it's sort of like
how many degrees Fahrenheit did you eat
today it doesn't make any sense but we
don't have a better measurement system
so we're just going to run with it for
today
um I see these things people being
misled not
realizing what they're eating and
another thing I I hear from these sort
of eat all you want people they don't
count
anything well when you don't count
anything and all of a sudden you're
eating completely different
foods you have no idea where the hell
you are MH I think that's that's where
this misleading information is coming
from
people people who observe me uh over I'm
having a bad allergy day um people who
observe me over time they think I eat
whatever I want because you like people
that work at like the steakhouse that I
go to all the time they're like oh yeah
guy just gets like a platter of ribe
eyes I do but you know I'm also weighing
240 right now uh and I'm lean so you
probably haven't eaten for 20 hours
right and that's a one meal a day thing
so like while that looks like I can just
like hog out that's not what I'm doing
like I can't even eat enough calories in
one meal uh if it's mostly meat to to
get into a calorie
Surplus
um now also I did test out calorie
Surplus but soal calorie Surplus
Carnival I I did I did this test for
about six months really based on a
conversation I had with Professor Bart K
who is hands down the smartest guy in
nutrition um what I learned was you're
good as long as you keep those protein
sources lean so you got to have some
chicken in there like fillets instead of
RI
eyes um also a lot of my protein comes
from fortigen which comes with zero fat
so that's 150 grams of protein right
there now I go higher with my grams of
protein I might go to 300 or something
like that because I I want to feel full
um I don't think it's sustainable to go
to bed hungry every day like that's okay
if you're going through fasting but
fasting is not an everyday thing so um
otherwise you just make yourself
crazy so I I I think that that's part of
where we are but the I think the most
important thing people need to keep in
mind and where this came
from is the fact that protein itself not
Protein Plus fat not meat but protein
has no mechanism to be stored as body
fat so you can have protein like if you
you're eating chicken breasts you can go
way a boiled chicken breast like with no
like fatty sauce or mayonnaise on it or
anything you can go way into a calorie
Surplus I mean a chicken breast is my
opinion a lousy piece of meat CU it's
dry as a you know wat of napkins but
um you can eat that and you're very low
on fats very high in protein you can hit
your protein Target very easily and be
it a surplus or not and you'll grow
muscle now you'll feel like [__] because
you do need fats so when you when you
wear in a surplus how much of a surplus
did you
do like how many calories over 300
calories so that's the right way to do
it yeah now when you tell an an
unexperienced person and someone who is
not educated at all just found this real
or let's say some program that talks
about eat as much as you want um on
Carnivore diet and and for example don't
count calories or go away in a
surplus people go two 3,000 in a surplus
like I've had messages where people are
following these protocols they gain 40
50 pounds
uneducated person with the excess 50
pounds is pretty much lost it's going to
take him over a year to lose it with
their nutrition how would you let it get
that far because they were told and they
believe that they're optimizing their
hormones so this is the first time I
hear that gaining 50 pounds of fat is
helping you optimize the hormones and
become healthier and after that [__]
yeah that's not how that works and after
that you can start start losing weight
with the healthy hormones now I never
met this kind of nonsense for the last
1400 Transformations I've done with
people yeah and when you're not educated
you are worried when you're 20 pounds up
but you are being guided to where it's
continuing because you're optimizing
your hormones and they're just part of
the protocol you're gonna gain some
weight yes if it was two pounds I
understand you gained two pounds because
you've done some protocol it was
supposed to do this this and that 50
pounds it's going to ruin your life most
of the people and people think it's just
going to come off no it's G to be Mon
it's a struggle that's a year of
work exactly so a year of miserable work
when people get the idea of eating as
much as they want they don't really
understand what you just explained is
that the protein
Surplus does not result in a fat gain
because protein has no mechanism to be
stored in a fat and uh we talked about
it yesterday and pretty much even the
best and most knowledgeable people on
protein synthesis in the world they
don't really know where the protein goes
in a surplus it just disappears within
the termal Genesis you're quoting one of
my favorite scientists on Earth
Professor Jose Antonio he's a Florida
State let me let like I think the best
like if you really want to understand
where you should
be like where like where your Macros
should be if you you want to use that
term I don't use that term and you don't
use that term because we just count
grams of protein trying to keep the fat
moderate and trying to keep the
carbohydrates real low um not zero but
real up um so Professor Antonio in
2014 he looked at um and this is just
the title of the study the effects of
consuming high protein diet on body
composition in resistance trained
individuals this in the Journal of um
International Society of Sports
Nutrition then there was a second study
in 2016
which heavily referenced the first study
where um higher compared with lower and
I'm just reading the title of the study
so you know nobody can say I'm
misinterpreting
this higher compared with lower dietary
protein during
exercise sorry during energy deficit
combined with intense exercise promotes
greater lean mass gain and fat Mass loss
as in both at the same time and this was
a randomized trial so like top quality
study like Pharma level study
so uh a lot of things that people in the
fitness industry like to talk about is
you know you need to bulk up calories
matter no they don't it's just grams of
protein that
matter it's you don't need carb carbs
Play No role in muscle protein synthesis
at all they play a little bit of role in
glycogen replenishment however if you
don't have carbohydrates your body makes
up the difference through glucon
gluconeogenesis and that's demand driven
so I think a lot of people worry if you
have extra protein like it all gets
stored as body fat because of
glucogenesis not how that works it's
when you're glucose say it again um
there was this
study I looked at it was like the 1300
page study on gluconeogenesis and
protein relationship they found that in
a worst cases only 7% of the protein got
converted into the glucose so it's not
that simple the protein doesn't just
disappear like you eat grams of protein
and now you just convert it to 100 grams
of glucose there are certain cases when
the body did convert some protein and
amino acids into the carbohydrates those
were usually the most intense and rare
cases where only 7% of the total
consumed protein was converted into and
let's look at why the reason why is
because the brain needs a very small
amount of glucose from time to time so
when the brain needs it the body
prioritizes the brain makes sense it
will convert some small amount of
protein into glucose through glucon
neogenesis to supply the brain with what
it needs it also does the same thing to
supply muscle with what it
needs
now like so like this is why we have
studies where people are very low
carbohydrate and they haven't been in
the
past compared with other athletes these
are athlete studies compared with other
athletes who were high carbohydrate and
and remained High carbohydrate no
performance differences at all in fact
there's a a meta analysis by Professor
meno henselman who's a friend of mine
awesome guy everybody should follow that
guy um very scientific uh
driven that you know it's like if
whatever the evidence says like the guy
will change his position on a dime if
better evidence shows up like true
scientists love love that about him
um you he determined in a in a separate
so he did a meta analysis on this and he
did another meta analysis on how much
protein sorry how many carbohydrates we
really need like volume
training
um
very high demand for
glycogen basically past 40 grams of
carbohydrates your body's not you know
able to really turn it into glycogen
anymore and that's an
excess right so the goal is pretty much
to keep the carbs as low as possible
keep fed moderate and protein would be
the one where I would say yeah you can
you can go decent decent high on the
protein now I think my biggest message
through this video would be that eat as
much as you want on Carnivore is
misunderstood with high protein not
being stored in body fat but nobody does
high protein only like people eat beef
that's what carnivore is about it's
mostly about the Bine category with the
animals over 500 pounds with the horns
and coincidentally these two studies and
referencing the first one by Professor
Antonio they were taking protein
supplements to get to their protein
Target so there's no fat whatsoever fat
there so it's like that's that's what's
being misinterpreted and I think there's
a there's a confirmation bias like and I
mean like the analogy that I I really
like is you know like people like the
news that fits their politics yes right
it's so you like conservatives watch Fox
News and they're like yeah the way it
should be and liberals watch CNN and
both sides are like completely
distorting the story like the head one
headline is like totally the opposite of
the other um but people feel better
almost lying to themselves they're like
you know they're like strategically
misinforming themselves it's like an
achieved ignorance and for whatever
reason people like doing
that and uh nutrition isn't
nutrition is no different they want to
like hey I like somebody goes I like
just like shoving food in my face all
day long so this carnivore thing where I
can shove food in my face all day long
sounds great and they don't even want to
hear anything else and you can Ang they
get angry with you if you try and tell
them oh that's not how that works like
you're going to put on body fat and
they're like no you know to hell and it
sounds scientific because
now it's a combined with the component
of hormonal optimalization and you need
to reset the endocrin system and all the
hormones are not working properly
because we were consuming garbage food
and junk food for the past 15 years so
you got to do this crazy Surplus in a
carnivore and you're just going to gain
4050 pounds which is just going to ruin
your life so so I got another I got
another uh little little fact here that
I think will really help
people it doesn't take months or weeks
to optimize your hormone
pretty much and I'm just going to now
not all hormones are the same and this
is a simplification I don't think it's
an over simplification though insulin is
one of the most powerful hormones we
have
if you have an insulin dysfunction like
your insulin doesn't absorb into the
musculature which is this is metabolic
syndrome slash if it gets to an extreme
level type two
diabetes you can fix that by cutting
carbs out of your life in like two
days so that's hormone optimization you
don't need to wait six months like as
soon as you stop eating carbohydrates
your body just shifts gears in about 12
hours because it's as soon as it's done
digesting what you had it's like we need
more energy okay ketones and starts
metabolizing body
fat now the insulin receptors finally
get a break and they get a chance to
open up and if there is any insulin
presence let's say get some
carbohydrates from some muscle glycogen
now a lot less insulin needs to be
produced because your receptors are very
very sensitive because there was absence
of large amount of insulin yeah I mean
the the reception here's another thing
testosterone I mean let's talk about the
hormones people give a [__]
about as we have found out through some
of my experimentation and then what
we've learned with Primal Medical Group
and the oral testosterone under
Cano your natur natural I'm going to use
the word cycle like how it goes up and
goes down I think that that word will
resonate with some people
um basically you start making your
testosterone at whatever time you get up
um you know for working people six for
our trolls you know probably 10 uh but
then as soon as you your feet hit the
floor you start making testosterone and
it goes up for about 6 hours and then it
goes back down and then at night time
it's supposed to be
low so like whatever your hormone
disfunction is like most of these things
exist on a circadian rhythm which is a
24-hour clock like you don't need to do
something for weeks or months to change
your hormones you just need to
not eat like an unsupervised child for a
day and then it all goes right back to
where it's supposed to be and you become
a machine that is pointed towards
Fitness you know especially when you're
gaining tons of weight when you're
gaining tens of pounds you have to stop
this madness it's going to ruin your
life 50 pounds will not come off easily
I have protocols that are aggressive and
I can attack 50 pounds I didn't realize
it was that bad like oh it's that's a
hor it's horrible there's actually a
doctor Dr Sarah I don't know which one
but she taged me in one of her posts
where she's dealing with it actually
fighting against because I believe that
she's a she's a represent representative
of carnivore diet she loves the diet but
she Lo she hates the misinformation and
she was just posting tons and tons of
messages from people who just gained
insane amount of weight on doing this
this crazy cplus so that's what I think
is really important to point out beef is
very fatty food unless you go absolutely
lean lean which most people don't e a
ground beef 85% lean 85%
does not mean it's lean there's still 17
grams of fat in 4 ounces and nobody eats
4 ounces people eat 2 three pounds a day
plus they put cheese on it they put some
butter on it they eat some bacon with
some eggs those calories will add up
like no tomorrow fat needs no room in
your in your stomach it's a stick of
butter it doesn't any can't go zero like
you there are essential fats oh
certainly certainly that when you I mean
just go for leaner cuts of meat I mean
here's here's probably the
perfect test subject for what we're
talking about he runs these tests all
the time Dr
Baker Dr Baker eats one thing red meat
never eats turkey doesn't eat chicken
doesn't like anything else doesn't eat
organ Meats just steak
however when he's enjoying himself he
has RI IES when he's trying to get a
little bit leaner he just switches to
New York MH which have about half the
fat yeah so there's no doubt about fat
being beneficial for the
body but my whole point is not to
intentionally push as much fat as you
can possibly put in your mouth yeah that
that is definitely not the goal
protein don't count anything else I mean
carbohydrates yeah you want to keep them
low and also you don't want to like for
for a protein perspective if you're try
and just do like the body body builder
thing from like the 80s where it's just
boiled chicken breast every day you're
going to hate your life well hate your
life
Ander you need fats yeah you're you're
gonna go crazy without fat like you have
to have some sort of energy in that food
and you know if I do one ribeye for
lunch and one ribeye for dinner and do
about two spoops of fortigen I am
perfectly fine I don't need no extra
butter on a riye ribeye is very very
fatty and on 32 2 35 ounces I can still
lean out when I'm fasting that's going
to be roughly about 2400 calories and
I'll supplement some forage in and I'm
good I can still keep leaning out but
also I'm 63 280 so imagine someone who
is
15040 54 you know they're pushing ribe
eyes and Butters and cheeses and eggs
and bacons and oh I'm not losing weight
you know when when we get together with
our wives in Vegas and we go to 888
steak
um we we just eat like pigs but we're
not trying to like make that a
responsible day it's just like like
Daniel and I will eat I don't know
between the two of us how many pounds of
meat do you think we
eat I'll
do I'll do three three and a half myself
for sure and you do at least the same if
not more yeah yeah right but those are
just days where we're like well how
often how often are you here twice a
year right yeah you know like three
times a year yeah and that's how often I
am an
888 right I only go there when there is
someone like really really close to me
in town so I I I guess you're making a
really good point how rare it is for us
to occasionally overeat but we still
overeat on steak we just have so the
right stuff it's like it might be a
little bit extra fat but like we're not
having like chocolate cakes exactly so I
think for the people it's really
important to hear that because um
there's a lot of people who are stuck
who are plateauing on diet on Carnivore
diet they don't really know why and in
back of their head they just kind of
have oh eat whatever you want as much as
you want no no no also I noticed that
this advice comes often from skinny
people naturally like if you're
naturally skinny you really have no clue
what the weight loss is about like if
you never had a gram of fat on you you
can't really say that you Masterpiece
the fat loss no um there are people a
few people that I know of who can eat
like pigs and still maintain low body
weight and actually low body fat too
they don't look bad when they take their
shirt off they don't look bad it's not
just the Bone and Skin but there's a
little bit of muscle too and they don't
even work out but but when you look at
the world as okay well I've been 145
male my whole
life what I'm doing must be working and
I'm eating as much meat as I want
whenever I want so it must work for
everyone else well the answer is Absolut
no um you're one of a million who can
indulge themselves and I'm jealous and
I'm happy for you because I would love
to eat sticks of butter I love butter if
I could man if I could I would eat a
whole riy and a stick of butter with it
like an ice cream I would be just
chewing it down because I love it it
tastes amazing yeah um but I just cannot
do it because I gain tons and tons of
body fat if I only eat still full
satiation every single day my weight
will start going up because it's so easy
to get excessive calories on Carnivore
diet you get some cheese you get some
butter you get some bacon some eggs and
then you get some beef like ribe eyes
which I love the most and I'm up to four
or 5,000 easily so here's
so as we've been discussing this over
the years I try and adjust my
recommendations and so do you to try and
we discuss this all the time for those
of you that you know follow both of us
we're always trying to like get to a
place where our
recommendation is
not is not off-the-wall crazy it's like
so we want people to go yeah I can do
that so so ultimately as meat and water
the ultimate diet yeah but you're not
going to do that so or most people
aren't going to do that like you and me
will do it especially if we have like a
photo shoot coming up or something like
that but most people I mean that doesn't
it sounds like they're really like
sacrificing
so what I think is the best thing to do
is set the priorities like your priority
is protein you need some fat so don't
just do all chicken breasts but if you
have a chicken breast in there that's
fine um
keep the carbohydrates you know if
you're a big guy 40 and under if you're
a smaller person or female you know
maybe 20 and
under
[Music]
um and then you're really just counting
your grams of protein and if you follow
that you're probably in like you want to
stay hungry you don't want to be full
that's oh I'm so glad you brought it up
so but I got I got a tip for this okay
um
I got this from all people uh Tom Brady
uh
so Tom Brady never really watched his
weight um you know and he's not a
strength athlete he's quarterback um he
can throw a ball and he can move real
well but he has this thing that I don't
know if he copied this from someone else
or he just decided to do it but he said
every time I eat at home I just eat my
underwear because it's like if if my abs
start going away or my midsection starts
looking like a little full it's
like I'm there I'm good I don't need
anything which which I think you know
when you have fortigen to offset the
protein
need and then you know let's say you're
one meal a day or even two meals a day
you know you'll never get get to the
point where your stomach is just jammed
which by the way messes with your sleep
also oh absolutely you get sleep apnea
it'll be snore and barely getting any
oxygen through nose yeah because with
that much food in it's so much water
it's a breaking down and digest there's
tons of sodium yeah and uh you probably
like within from a dinner like this I
can retain eight nine pounds easily if I
have excessive eight nine pounds out of
nowhere I'm not sleeping that night I'm
snoring like crazy and my sleep apnea is
out of control which I do not have sleep
apnea but I can make it I can make it
happen so night at 888 I never have a
good night sleep after that there's all
there's always like we always do like
the exercise filming and then that night
is when we go to that place because and
we go there 20 hours faster 22 hours
faster fact yeah and we just go crazy on
beef and we still overdo it on beef so
yeah it is definitely possible we get
terrible sleep and if I did that every
day I end up in my 600 pound life yeah
and that's that's that's not a problem
at all so I'm very happy that you're
mentioning you got to
go hungry now when I am leaning out
myself what I do I always go to bed hry
and I always go to bed within one pound
of a range on the scale that I woke up
so if I wake up at 280 I'm going I'm
going to bed at 280 or
28.5 now how do I do it I eat um I do my
steps I'll put a hoodie on sweating on a
on on my treadmill while I'm walking I'm
walking very slow it's not a steady
cardio I'm walking very very slow it's
about 2.5 miles an hour I'm carrying the
conversations with all of my clients
when to made that clear because some
people confuse that with the steady
cardio and that's not it it's just an
absolute normal chill walk like you
normally do just a metabolic stimulant
for extended period of time right and it
gives me energy um I feel really good
after that it starts my day well so I'm
sweating on my
treadmill then I go work out and at that
point I'm about 277 27 I drop about two
or three pounds from my morning weight
and then I get all of my food
post-workout my weight goes up four or
five pounds then I hit the sauna at
night bring the weight back down to 280
now the next day I'm waking up at
278.50 279 so that's how I'm forcing my
body down now a lot of people say well
you're just pushing the water out of the
body 30 pounds later still water out of
my body right I have people pushing 80
90 pounds later okay what point you just
accept that people are losing weight
because I I've met that argument before
it's just a water loss yes 100 pounds of
a water loss over course of six seven
months no it is just a pure weight loss
now how do you know you're not losing
muscle because as we discussed I'm in a
very very high protein consumption plus
I do my tests every morning which might
not be the most accurate but these are
the tests that I'm going by and they're
always showing constant and the steady
muscle mass in my body body now am I
gaining no I'm
maintaining will I gain over the course
of eight nine months if I get one or two
pounds up I'll be very very happy but
I've been Lifting for my entire life
I've been competing in bodybuilding I've
been taking gear it's hard for me to
just Spike up 10 15 pounds like someone
who never worked out right
right yeah I I
don't any any big weight fluctuations
usually have to do with me running an
experiment that failed yeah like there's
there's no like you put on 10 pounds of
muscle like no yeah I'm already like a
well-developed strength athlete like
that that's not g to happen like well in
your in your and my case if we gain two
to three pounds of lean
mass um let's say on a dexas chin we had
one hell of a year yeah it's just aming
like yeah for developed people
especially know you're at a trt dosage
now yes yeah same so um I was was but
like that plus very optimized strength
training when you're already developed
like you're not you're not going to put
on you know 10 or 15 pounds in a year
like it like you were when you were a
beginner yes I I think that's that's a
little lost on people
is they think you know my first year my
first year with X3 I put on 20 pounds of
muscle so I'll I'll continue to do that
in perpetuity no no you won't you're not
going to be an 800 pound bodybuilder
yeah not thing yeah exactly well if that
was the case it would just forever keep
building 20 pounds of muscle and I mean
people would turn we literally have a
protein in our body that stops us from
growing muscle because the more muscle
you have the more cardiac demand there
is right like like like a lot of these
like steroid using bodybuilders it's not
the drugs that are killing them it's the
muscle they have so much muscle so much
of a demand on their heart like if you
look at like a you know
300b obese person they don't have to
supply blood to their body fat now not
plenty of health
problems but the cardiac stress is
actually higher on the 300 pound lean
bodybuilder
because the human heart is not meant to
pump blood to 300 pounds of functioning
organ which is vascular any tons of
oxygen and blood flow yeah that's very
true that's why most strength athletes
especially you know like like when you
look at the
NFL they're they're big I mean the linen
are fat but that's an advantage they
need to be heavy but you know you don't
see anybody that looks like a
bodybuilder on the NFL field right yeah
very true and also like look at Fighters
they're lean they look good but they
don't look like bodybuilders
bodybuilders
are I man you have a background of
bodybuilding some of my best friends are
competitive
bodybuilders but man is a weird sport
like it's so it's so not
Health as soon as you start seeing your
blood pressure getting out of control
right it's a sign you're pushing it way
too far as soon as you see a lot of aian
reactions and you have acne all over
your back and you can't keep your liver
enzymes under control your filtration of
your kidneys is dropping tremendously
and you can't stop it your red blood
cells are freaking triple for the long
term hitrate your hemoglobin is 25 you
never donate blood and all of that
excessive gasoline is cirle through your
body yes you're probably developing some
type of an issue so there there those
are these things that you really have to
watch out for or yeah you know when
you're trying to Pursuit a career in a
bodybuilding just to make sure that a
body is running optimally I do believe
there is a way to do bodybuilding very
healthy I'm just not sure how far you
can get with it you know same I'm just
really not sure how how Pro so what
level of professionalism you can get
with it yeah and it's it's odd because
the the questions about like who's
natural and who's not natural the reason
people get so frustrated about that is
because people people want to know how
far can I get without hurting myself and
turning to
peeds like that's that's why people are
angry about that conversation so you
know when I see like somebody pointing
somebody pointing fingers at Allan
richson he's the guy that plays Reacher
you know and they oh he's definitely on
steroids it's like definitely really I
mean the dude was always big like he's
like you I mean he's like 63 like you
know 260 something like that like um and
he had never weight lifted until this
past year like his entire physique was
according to him was like push-ups
pull-ups and sit-ups there's some people
who can get pretty far with that um yeah
long story short if you think you need
to optimize your hormones reach out to
Primal get your schedules get your get
get your test scheduled see if there's
anything even wrong with your uh
hormones before you start eatting 6,000
calories of fat and protein and just put
on 30 pounds because those 30 pounds I
can assure you it's not going down
quickly it's going to be hard work just
like if you gained it from anything else
so minus the toxins and all the garbage
that you're eating from the pro process
garbage but the point is and I'm very
happy that we cleared it out protein
does not get stored in fat the foods
that we eat within the carnivore diet
are also really high in fat and just a
simple ribi simp 85% lean beef it's very
high in fat now you put butter on top of
it you put cheese on top of it you put
bacon next to it um two three whole eggs
well you got tons and tons and tons of
calories there which could negatively
impact your weight loss especially when
the body is already adapted when you're
coming from the junk food diet and you
start eating a lot of protein a lot of
fat you're just going to drop the weight
from all the water retention and
inflammation that carbohydrates have
done to you because you were probably
eating highly oxidized carbohydrates
high fructose corn syrup dextrose and
all the other processed sugars that are
within the junk food so if you go from
the junk food to carnivore and you still
eat a lot in carnivore it is very likely
you're going to still drop some weight
because the inflammation is going to
drop but once when the body gets adapted
you got to start playing the game within
the adapted body
yeah yeah it's perfect well thanks a lot
for the talk it was awesome yeah man I
think people will get a lot of benefit
out of this appreciate for appreciate
you for having me and uh for you guys
you have a wonderful rest of your day
awesome thanks J thanks
[Music]